=========================
Installation Instructions
=========================

.. contents::
  :local:

Preconditions
=============

Python
------

RIDE runs only on the regular Python_, not on Jython nor IronPython. **Python 2.6** is the minimum version. Notice that similarly as Robot Framework, RIDE does not yet support Python 3. Notice also that on OS X RIDE requires 32-bit Python version.

Most other operating systems than Windows have a recent enough Python installed by default. You can find Windows installers and plenty of other information from http://python.org.

wxPython
--------

RIDE's GUI is implemented using wxPython_ toolkit. Only **wxPython 2.8.12.1** with Unicode support is officially supported. Possible new releases in wxPython 2.8 series ought to work fine too, but wxPython 2.9 is still considered unstable.

*On Windows* you can download an appropriate installer from `wxPython download page`__. For more information about the installation see http://wxpython.org pages in general.

*On Linux* you should be able to install wxPython with your package manager. For example, on Debian based systems such as Ubuntu running ``sudo apt-get install python-wxgtk2.8`` ought to be enough.

*On OS X* you can try wxPython 2.9 because it supports OS X better than 2.8 releases. On latest OS X versions you should have suitable wxPython version installed by default, but unfortunately all RIDE features 
`do not yet work`__ on that platform.

__ http://sourceforge.net/projects/wxpython/files/wxPython/2.8.12.1/
__ http://code.google.com/p/robotframework-ride/issues/list?q=label:OS-OSX

Robot Framework
---------------

If RIDE is used only to edit test cases, Robot Framework does not need to
installed at all. However, the [[Test runner plugin]] requires Robot Framework
to be `separately installed`__.

.. note:: Directories added to `PATH` as part of the Robot Framework installation must
          not contain quotes. Otherwise RIDE may not be able to execute tests due to
          a `bug in Python`__.

__ http://code.google.com/p/robotframework/wiki/Installation
__ http://bugs.python.org/issue17023

Installation
============

RIDE is distributed as separate installation packages for Windows and for other platforms, and these packages can be found from the `download page`_.

Installing from source
----------------------

  * Get the source distribution.
  * Extract it e.g. with WinZip on Windows or with ``tar xzvf robotide-<version>.tar.gz`` on Linux or OS X.
  * Go to the created directory and run ``python setup.py install``. Notice that on Linux or OS X you typically need to prefix the command with ``sudo``.

Using Windows installer
-----------------------

  * Get Windows installer.
  * Double click the installer and click through the opened GUI.

Using `pip` or `easy_install`
-----------------------------

RIDE can also be installed with pip_ or easy_install_ using either of these commands::

      pip install robotframework-ride
      easy_install robotframework-ride

This installation approach works on all operating systems but obviously requires you to have ``pip`` or ``easy_install`` installed. Notice that you may need to prefix the above commands with ``sudo`` on unixy machines.

Start-up
========

After a successful installation RIDE can be started from the command line by running ``ride.py``. Alternatively you can specify a file or directory to open as an argument like ``ride.py path/to/tests``.
Starting from RIDE 0.54, you can also create a desktop shortcut during installation on Windows.

On Windows running ``ride.py`` requires having ``<PythonInstallationDir>\Scripts`` on PATH. If `pybot` command to run tests with Robot Framework works you should be fine. If it does not, see 
`Robot Framework installation instructions`__ for more information about setting PATH.

If you use Cygwin on Windows, you may need to fix the shebang line in `ride.py` manually before running it.

__ http://code.google.com/p/robotframework/wiki/Installation#Setting_PATH

Using latest development version
================================

To test the latest enhancements or fixes, you can easily checkout the latest RIDE sources from its version control system and run it directly from there. As a precondition you need to have Git_ and Paver_ installed. After that, just run the following commands to clone RIDE's repository and start the latest version::

    git clone https://github.com/robotframework/RIDE.git
    cd RIDE
    paver run [datasource]

To update your clone, run ``git pull`` in the `RIDE` directory.


.. _python: http://python.org
.. _wxPython: http://wxpython.org
.. _pip: http://www.pip-installer.org
.. _easy_install: http://peak.telecommunity.com/DevCenter/EasyInstall
.. _git: http://git-scm.com/
.. _paver: https://github.com/paver/paver
.. _download page: http://code.google.com/p/robotframework-ride/downloads/list